doc/clojure/java/jdbc/ConnectionPooling.md, before:

# Connection Pooling
clojure.java.jdbc does not provide connection pooling directly but it is relatively easy to add to your project. The following example shows how to configure connection pooling use c3p0.
## Add the c3p0 dependency
If you're using Leiningen, you can just add the following to your dependencies:

    [c3p0/c3p0 "0.9.1.2"]

In Maven, it would be:

    <dependency>
      <groupId>c3p0</groupId>
      <artifactId>c3p0</artifactId>
      <version>0.9.1.2</version>
    </dependency>

## Create the pooled datasource from your db-spec
Define your db-spec as usual, for example (for MySQL):

    (def db-spec 
      {:classname "com.mysql.jdbc.Driver"
       :subprotocol "mysql"
       :subname "//127.0.0.1:3306/mydb"
       :user "myaccount"
       :password "secret"})

Import the c3p0 class as part of your namespace declaration, for example:

    (ns example.db
      (:import com.mchange.v2.c3p0.ComboPooledDataSource))

Define a function that creates a pooled datasource:

    (defn pool
      [spec]
      (let [cpds (doto (ComboPooledDataSource.)
                   (.setDriverClass (:classname spec)) 
                   (.setJdbcUrl (str "jdbc:" (:subprotocol spec) ":" (:subname spec)))
                   (.setUser (:user spec))
                   (.setPassword (:password spec))
                   ;; expire excess connections after 30 minutes of inactivity:
                   (.setMaxIdleTimeExcessConnections (* 30 60))
                   ;; expire connections after 3 hours of inactivity:
                   (.setMaxIdleTime (* 3 60 60)))] 
        {:datasource cpds}))

Now you can create a single connection pool:

    (def pooled-db (delay (pool db-spec)))
    
    (defn db-connection [] @pooled-db)

And then call (db-connection) wherever you need access to it.

Commit message:

Added cautionary note that auxiliary documentation will be moving to clojure-doc.org soon!

doc/clojure/java/jdbc/ConnectionPooling.md, after:

*Note: this documentation will soon move to [clojure-doc.org](http://clojure-doc.org) where it can be more easily maintained and accept community contributions.*

# Connection Pooling
clojure.java.jdbc does not provide connection pooling directly but it is relatively easy to add to your project. The following example shows how to configure connection pooling use c3p0.
## Add the c3p0 dependency
If you're using Leiningen, you can just add the following to your dependencies:

    [c3p0/c3p0 "0.9.1.2"]

In Maven, it would be:

    <dependency>
      <groupId>c3p0</groupId>
      <artifactId>c3p0</artifactId>
      <version>0.9.1.2</version>
    </dependency>

## Create the pooled datasource from your db-spec
Define your db-spec as usual, for example (for MySQL):

    (def db-spec 
      {:classname "com.mysql.jdbc.Driver"
       :subprotocol "mysql"
       :subname "//127.0.0.1:3306/mydb"
       :user "myaccount"
       :password "secret"})

Import the c3p0 class as part of your namespace declaration, for example:

    (ns example.db
      (:import com.mchange.v2.c3p0.ComboPooledDataSource))

Define a function that creates a pooled datasource:

    (defn pool
      [spec]
      (let [cpds (doto (ComboPooledDataSource.)
                   (.setDriverClass (:classname spec)) 
                   (.setJdbcUrl (str "jdbc:" (:subprotocol spec) ":" (:subname spec)))
                   (.setUser (:user spec))
                   (.setPassword (:password spec))
                   ;; expire excess connections after 30 minutes of inactivity:
                   (.setMaxIdleTimeExcessConnections (* 30 60))
                   ;; expire connections after 3 hours of inactivity:
                   (.setMaxIdleTime (* 3 60 60)))] 
        {:datasource cpds}))

Now you can create a single connection pool:

    (def pooled-db (delay (pool db-spec)))
    
    (defn db-connection [] @pooled-db)

And then call (db-connection) wherever you need access to it.
