doc/clojure/java/jdbc/UsingDDL.md, before:

# Manipulating Tables with DDL
Currently you can create and drop tables using clojure.java.jdbc. To see how to manipulate data with SQL, see [Manipulating Data with SQL](https://github.com/clojure/java.jdbc/blob/master/doc/clojure/java/jdbc/UsingSQL.md).
## Creating a table
To create a table, use *create-table* with the table name and a vector for each column spec. Currently, table-level specifications are not supported.

    (defn create-fruit
      "Create a table"
      []
      (sql/create-table
        :fruit
        [:name "varchar(32)" "PRIMARY KEY"]
        [:appearance "varchar(32)"]
        [:cost :int]
        [:grade :real]))

## Dropping a table
To drop a table, use *drop-table* with the table name.

    (defn drop-fruit
      "Drop a table"
      []
      (try
        (sql/drop-table :fruit)
        (catch Exception _)))

## Accessing table metadata
To retrieve the metadata for a table, you can operate on the connection itself. In future, functions may be added to make this easier.

    (defn db-get-tables
      "Demonstrate getting table info"
      [db]
      (into []
            (j/result-set-seq
               (-> (j/get-connection db)
                   (.getMetaData)
                   (.getTables nil nil nil (into-array ["TABLE" "VIEW"]))))))

Commit message:

Added cautionary note that auxiliary documentation will be moving to clojure-doc.org soon!

doc/clojure/java/jdbc/UsingDDL.md, after:

*Note: this documentation will soon move to [clojure-doc.org](http://clojure-doc.org) where it can be more easily maintained and accept community contributions.*

# Manipulating Tables with DDL
Currently you can create and drop tables using clojure.java.jdbc. To see how to manipulate data with SQL, see [Manipulating Data with SQL](https://github.com/clojure/java.jdbc/blob/master/doc/clojure/java/jdbc/UsingSQL.md).
## Creating a table
To create a table, use *create-table* with the table name and a vector for each column spec. Currently, table-level specifications are not supported.

    (defn create-fruit
      "Create a table"
      []
      (sql/create-table
        :fruit
        [:name "varchar(32)" "PRIMARY KEY"]
        [:appearance "varchar(32)"]
        [:cost :int]
        [:grade :real]))

## Dropping a table
To drop a table, use *drop-table* with the table name.

    (defn drop-fruit
      "Drop a table"
      []
      (try
        (sql/drop-table :fruit)
        (catch Exception _)))

## Accessing table metadata
To retrieve the metadata for a table, you can operate on the connection itself. In future, functions may be added to make this easier.

    (defn db-get-tables
      "Demonstrate getting table info"
      [db]
      (into []
            (j/result-set-seq
               (-> (j/get-connection db)
                   (.getMetaData)
                   (.getTables nil nil nil (into-array ["TABLE" "VIEW"]))))))
